Christopher Edward Nolan[1] (/'no?l?n/; born 30 July 1970)[2] is an English film director, screenwriter, and producer who holds both British and American citizenship. He is one of the highest-grossing directors in history, and among the most acclaimed and influential filmmakers of the 21st century.

Having made his directorial debut with Following (1998), Nolan gained considerable attention for his second feature, Memento (2000), for which he was nominated for numerous accolades, including the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay. The acclaim garnered by his independent films gave Nolan the opportunity to make the big-budget thriller Insomnia (2002) and the mystery drama The Prestige (2006). He found further popular and critical success with The Dark Knight Trilogy (2005–2012); Inception (2010), which received eight Academy Award nominations, including for Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay; Interstellar (2014); and Dunkirk (2017), which earned him his first Academy Award nomination for Best Director. His ten films have grossed over US$4.7 billion worldwide and garnered a total of 34 Oscar nominations and seven wins. Nolan has co-written several of his films with his brother, Jonathan, and runs the production company Syncopy Inc. with his wife, Emma Thomas.

Nolan's films are typically rooted in epistemological and metaphysical themes, exploring human morality, the construction of time, and the malleable nature of memory and personal identity. His body of work is permeated by materialistic perspectives, nonlinear storytelling, practical special effects, innovative soundscapes, large-format film photography, and analogous relationships between visual language and narrative elements. In addition to his filmmaking, he is an advocate for film preservation and the continued availability of film stock.Christopher Edward Nolan[1] (/'no?l?n/; born 30 July 1970)[2] is an English film director, screenwriter, and producer who holds both British and American citizenship. He is one of the highest-grossing directors in history, and among the most acclaimed and influential filmmakers of the 21st century.

Having made his directorial debut with Following (1998), Nolan gained considerable attention for his second feature, Memento (2000), for which he was nominated for numerous accolades, including the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay. The acclaim garnered by his independent films gave Nolan the opportunity to make the big-budget thriller Insomnia (2002) and the mystery drama The Prestige (2006). He found further popular and critical success with The Dark Knight Trilogy (2005–2012); Inception (2010), which received eight Academy Award nominations, including for Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay; Interstellar (2014); and Dunkirk (2017), which earned him his first Academy Award nomination for Best Director. His ten films have grossed over US$4.7 billion worldwide and garnered a total of 34 Oscar nominations and seven wins. Nolan has co-written several of his films with his brother, Jonathan, and runs the production company Syncopy Inc. with his wife, Emma Thomas.

Nolan's films are typically rooted in epistemological and metaphysical themes, exploring human morality, the construction of time, and the malleable nature of memory and personal identity. His body of work is permeated by materialistic perspectives, nonlinear storytelling, practical special effects, innovative soundscapes, large-format film photography, and analogous relationships between visual language and narrative elements. In addition to his filmmaking, he is an advocate for film preservation and the continued availability of film stock.